Data Files
----------
sdd.gbc_002 : the sdd file from the March 2012 experiment
totalpower.dat : a list of times, scans, and power(?) per channel
operator.log : list of observed scans, Tsys, etc.

Program Files
-------------
check_sdd : an SMT program to spit out the sdd data as text
analyze-sddtext.c : collates possibly useful info for each scan
alan-sdd.c : a program Alan wrote, but not for the included sdd file

Reference File
--------------
sdd_file_format.pdf : a description of the sdd file format

Other Files
-----------
smt-2012-note : an e-mail exchange with Bob Freund...
smt-2012-vlbi.tsys : ...and the Tsys file referenced therein


SMT Scan Types
--------------
There are several different scan types, of which the most important
are listed below.

CONTSEQ: A scan of on-offs with the subreflector nutating.  A sequence
scan has multiples of eight subscans.  I think the ons are subscans 1,
2, 4, and 7 mod 8 (starting at 0); this can be checked by looking at
the data on a bright source, where the ons should be slightly but
noticeably higher than the offs.

CONTFIVE: A scan used to make pointing corrections.  This is basically
five CONTSEQ's, where only the middle one is actually centered on the
source.

CONTQK5: Another pointing scan like a CONTFIVE.

CONTCOLD: A cold cal scan.  There should be three segments of data
corresponding to "hot" (room temperature absorber), "cold" (liquid
nitrogen), and "sky".

CONTCAL: A cal scan with a "hot" segment and a "sky" segment.

VLBI: The actual VLBI scans, where the telescope tracks the source
without doing position switching or anything fancy.  Because there are
no offs, the data in the sdd file are not really useful during a VLBI
scan.

There should be 4 channels of data in all cases, corresponding to the
four combinations of polarization and sideband.

Note that the file operator.log drops the "CONT" in the scan type.
You'll also see two types of focus scans (FOC and NSFC), which are
best ignored.


Tsys
----

In between VLBI scans, the telescope does combinations of CAL scans,
sequences, and pointings.  The CAL scans don't show up in operator.log
but do update Tsys (as do a couple of the other types that use the hot
absorber).  This is why Tsys numbers in operator.log aren't
necessarily updated every scan (and not for the VLBI scans).

There are two Tsys columns.  The operator can choose 2 of the 4
combinations normally labelled HPOL/VPOL LSB/USB.  The QWP changes
from linear to circular basis, of course.

The file totalpower.dat keeps track of the power (or is it really
voltages?) per channel.  Columns are time, scan type, scan number, and
then eight more columns, two per channel (L/R LSB/USB), the first of
which is relevant.  The data aren't directly useful for computing
source flux densities because totalpower.dat doesn't keep track of the
on/off status.  Nevertheless, the totalpower values are highly
correlated with the system temperature, which especially at the low
elevations we often observe at is dominated by the contribution from
the sky.  Kazunori Akiyama has looked into using this fact to improve
Tsys estimates during the VLBI scans.  If you're interested in
pursuing this route, please contact him directly (
kazunori.akiyama@nao.ac.jp ), as he probably has written some software
utilities.  This method can theoretically improve our Tsys estimates
on VLBI scans on the level of a few percent (perhaps somewhat more
when the opacity and/or elevation is highly variable), although it
won't solve the broader issue of the difference between the SEFDs of
the two polarizations.


Telescope gain and flux densities
---------------------------------

There are two related unresolved issues here.  First, can we calculate
the gain of the SMT, preferably in each polarization separately, and,
if so, is it stable with time?  Second, can we use the CONTSEQ scans
to calculate the flux densities of any of our sources?

The file alan-sdd.c is a program Alan Rogers wrote a few years back
for a different observing run (i.e., it won't be directly useful for
the current sdd file) to try to calculate the gain of the SMT based on
observations of Saturn.  As far as I know it is the only gain estimate
we have for the SMT.  It is several years old, and we've been making
the (almost assuredly incorrect) assumption that the telescope gain is
stable with time and elevation.

In principle the sequence scans can be used to measure the flux
densities of our sources (or, if we think we know from other
telescopes what those flux densities are, to check on the telescope
gains).  I've tried extracting on/off and hot/cold/sky values from the
sdd files, but I've never been able to make much sense of the data
afterward.

In a previous year we spent much of the telescope's non-VLBI time
doing repeated sequences on a bunch of sources in the hopes that we'd
later be able to reduce the data to obtain good estimates of the
source flux densities.  If it is possible to make sense of the sdd
data, we should resume this procedure in 2013 and future years.  It
would be ideal if you could make progress on this front, although it's
possible that the data are simply too noisy, corrupted, or otherwise
not optimized for continuum flux density measurements to be useful.
